Reflection
==========

Resizing
--------

Shapes can be resized from the UI by using the width/height sliders

The use of sliders to change the width/height of the shapes
is appropriate but limits the range of sizes that can be used.
With the given range of 1-512, it does not allow for the most variability
of sizes as other solutions. But the size is appropriate to fit the restrictions
from the set width/height of the drawing panel given by the UI class. I did not allow
for anything large than 512 in the UI as given a large range it would become difficult
to choose smaller increments of size, and if the shape was too big it could take up the whole
screen and not allow for 2D movement. This however an be by-passed by editing
the save files, but this is not a user-friendly approach to solve the problem,
but it does allow for some type solution.

Moving
------

The design of moving shapes around is to only allow it in "selection"
mode (which is the default mode if not in sticky mode).
This mode shows the selected object with an extra thick border
to signal it is selected. The Moving of the shape is done through clicking
and dragging on the shape. 

Note:
If a click and drag is attempted on the background
this will move the view-port of editor or by using the arrow keys.

The moving of shapes of can only be done by selecting and dragging on
a single shape. This is because providing a UI option (other than providing
a button to enter selection mode) would cause far too much clutter than is needed.
The UI option is not required because of the installed UI idea of being able to 
click and drag on an object is an installed idea. This was tested on both a desktop
and a touch screen with pleasing results on both platforms.

Deleting
--------

Deleting (shape or line) is done by clicking on the UI button or
using the hot keys Delete/Backspace on a selected shape/line.

The combination of UI and hot keys are used to allow for multiple
types work flows. The hot keys are limited functionally in comparison
to the UI button. This is because the UI button can have sticky mode
enabled for, but the hot keys only allow for current selection deleting.

This limitation is acceptable because it is common for the delete
key only to effect the selected and this behaviour was kept to keep
with this known behaviour.

The UI choice of managing both shapes and lines through the same
interface was to simplify the use of lines for the user. As creating 
is inherently a choice that has to be clearly differentiated, deleting
however is differentiated in a different manner so it does not require
multiple buttons to get across the idea of being able to delete anything
on the screen.

Setting Text
------------

To set the text on a shape, this requires a shape to be selected
and to press enter for the "Set Text" text field in the UI panel.

The text in the text field is seen as the "default" text and is added
to any newly created shapes.

The settings of text is a very primitive method of changing the text
of objects and lacks a true edit, being able to edit the already present text
instead of having to re-write if the field has changed before. Also having
the current text in the field being the default text is better than nothing
but may not be the best way to tackle this problem. Another text field was
not added for purely having as default text to reduce an already cluttered UI.

Adding/Removing Lines
---------------------

Adding lines is started by the hot key l ( with L is with sticky mode enabled).
To start linking two shapes together start by selecting one shape and dragging the
line to the other shape and release.

To remove a line select it and either press Delete in the UI or press Delete/Backspace on
the keyboard.

Having both a UI option and hot key option for line management is helpful,
as it gives the user options for using the editor. The UI decision for deleting portion is explained 
in Deleting

Sticky Mode
-----------

This is a mouse mode which retains the last operation
instead of defaulting back to the selection mode.

It can be accessed by pressing the Toggle Sticky Mode in the UI
or using a regular hot key with shift, e.g. r is normal rectangle placement
R (r + shift ) is sticky rectangle placement

The state of Sticky Mode is shown in the message bar.

View Port
---------

The diagram editor emulates a 2D environment to allow for more space
to build diagrams. This can be controlled by clicking and dragging on the 
background of the editor panel or using the arrow keys.

The emulated 2D environment allows for greater use of the editor,
allowing smaller screen resolutions to have the same ability to view
the diagram as larger one. This could of also been accomplished by using
a zoom function.

The 2D environment did not change the UI must, expect for the fact that dragging
on the background will move you around in the 2D space instead of doing a box select of
multiple shapes. I believe that the 2D space was more important than box selection as
having the ability to move around a diagram would be more useful than moving a multiple
shapes around a fixed area. This choice was forced to be made as there was no user-friendly
way to differentiate the intention of the user from the given input channels.

Fill/Border/Line/Text Colour
----------------------------

Changing the of a colour of an element of a shape
is controlled purely through the UI Buttons. The option
to change a selected shape's colour is given by just using
the button(s), while changing the default colour(s) is done
by not having any shape selected.

Having each element that can be coloured being able
for the user to set themselves is what I saw as important
for the end user. As I see colour customisation for a diagram
to be on the same level of importance as a large variety of shapes.

However taking the route of having so many elements that can be coloured
did create the most UI clutter of the features in this diagram editor.

Having a HUD of the current defaults of the colours on the digram editor
screen, is helpful to keep track visually of what colours are being used, 
but it does take up screen space of the editor.