Reflection
==========

Resizing
--------

Shapes can be resized from the UI by using the width/height sliders

Moving
------

The design of moving shapes around is to only allow it in "selection"
mode (which is the default mode if not in sticky mode).
This mode shows the selected object with an extra thick border
to signal it is selected. The Moving of the shape is done through clicking
and dragging on the shape. 

Note:
If a click and drag is attempted on the background
this will move the view-port of editor or by using the arrow keys.

The moving of shapes of can only be done by selecting and dragging on
a single shape. This is because providing a UI option (other than providing
a button to enter selection mode) would cause far too much clutter than is needed.
The UI option is not required because of the installed UI idea of being able to 
click and drag on an object is an installed idea. This was tested on both a desktop
and a touch screen with pleasing results on both platforms.

Deleting
--------

Deleting (shape or line) is done by clicking on the UI button or
using the hot keys Delete/Backspace on a selected shape/line.

The combination of UI and hot keys are used to allow for multiple
types work flows. The hot keys are limited functionally in comparison
to the UI button. This is because the UI button can have sticky mode
enabled for, but the hot keys only allow for current selection deleting.

This limitation is acceptable because it is common for the delete
key only to effect the selected and this behaviour was kept to keep
with this known behaviour.

Setting Text
------------

To set the text on a shape, this requires a shape to be selected
and to press enter for the "Set Text" text field in the UI panel.

The text in the text field is seen as the "default" text and is added
to any newly created shapes.

The settings of text is a very primitive method of changing the text
of objects and lacks a true edit, being able to edit the already present text
instead of having to re-write if the field has changed before. Also having
the current text in the field being the default text is better than nothing
but may not be the best way to tackle this problem. Another text field was
not added for purely having as default text to reduce an already cluttered UI.

Adding/Removing Lines
---------------------

Adding lines is started by the hot key l ( with L is with sticky mode enabled).
To start linking two shapes together start by selecting one shape and dragging the
line to the other shape and release.

To remove a line select it and either press Delete in the UI or press Delete/Backspace on
the keyboard 

Sticky Mode
-----------

This is a mouse mode which retains the last operation
instead of defaulting back to the selection mode.

It can be accessed by pressing the Toggle Sticky Mode in the UI
or using a regular hot key with shift, e.g. r is normal rectangle placement
R (r + shift ) is sticky rectangle placement

The state of Sticky Mode is shown in the message bar.

View Port
---------

The diagram editor emulates a 2D environment to allow for more space
to build diagrams. This can be controlled by clicking and dragging on the 
background of the editor panel or using the arrow keys.

The emulated 2D environment allows for greater use of the editor,
allowing smaller screen resolutions to have the same ability to view
the diagram as larger one. This could of also been accomplished by using
a zoom function.

The 2D environment did not change the UI must, expect for the fact that dragging
on the background will move you around in the 2D space instead of doing a box select of
multiple shapes. I believe that the 2D space was more important than box selection as
having the ability to move around a diagram would be more useful than moving a multiple
shapes around a fixed area. This choice was forced to be made as there was no user-friendly
way to differentiate the intention of the user from the given input channels.   